
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022
Page 1 of 10
The Texas A&M University Milner Hall, where some I-O Psychology labs and
offices are located
THE I-O AGGIE
ISSUE 4.2, NOVEMBER 2022
Contents:
2nd Year Poster
Presentations (pg. 1)
Welcome to Our
New Students! (pg. 2)
Aggie Award
Spotlight (pg. 4)
State of the MSIOP
Program (pg. 5)
State of the PhD
Program (pg. 5)
Recent Graduates
(pg. 6)
Aggie Achievements!
(pg. 8)
The I-O Aggie Celebrates 2022
The Texas A&M University I-O Psychology programs continue to
make strides.
Yet another year has almost passed in Aggieland. The I-O Aggie looks back on 2022 with pride in the I-O Psychology programs’ accomplishments. As detailed in the State of the Program letters and
elsewhere in this and the special issue (issue 4.1), the MSIOP and PhD programs continue to successfully train the next generation of I-O
practitioners and academics. Both programs continue to admit large classes of students who secure prestigious placements and present and publish
important research. The sizable number of PhD students who successfully defended their thesis or dissertation over the past year is evidence of the
program’s success. The goal of the present issue is to share some of that success and other program updates. Whereas we reflect on 2022, we also
look toward 2023 and all the additional work our program is set to do.
Each year, the Texas A&M University Department of Psychological & Brain Sciences hosts its 2nd Year Poster Session in which second-year PhD students present the research on which they have worked over the past year. This year, our
department had the pleasure of hearing from our program’s three second-year PhD students: Kristen Jaramillo, Nidhal Mazza, and Yanai Otero La Porte.

2nd Year Poster Presentations
Continued on pg. (7)…
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 2 of 10
In Fall 2022, the TAMU I-O Psychology programs
welcomed 4 PhD students and 24 MS students to
Aggieland. Each new student is introduced below
along with their research/work interests.
PhD Students
Beomgyu Park is from Seoul, Korea. He earned his bachelor’s degree in industrial-organizational psychology from University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign. Beomgyu’s research interests are team
performance, leadership, and psychometrics.
Evan Nault is from Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas. They earned their bachelor’s degree in psychology from Texas A&M University. Evan is interested in working on research revolving around mental illness and stigmatized identities in the workplace.
Garam Kim is from Gyeong-ju, Korea. She earned her master’s degree in industrial and organizational psychology from The Catholic University of Korea. Garam’s research interests are diversity, inclusion,
and fairness in the workplace and occupational health psychology.

Toby Driggs
MSIOP Students

Alexander Hamilton is from Dallas, Texas. They earned their bachelor’s degree in psychology from John Brown University. Alexander is interested in diversity, masculinity, and gender roles.

Ashlyn Elick is from Bellville, Texas. She earned her bachelor’s degree in business management from University of Texas at Austin. Ashlyn’s interests include mental health and wellness, women in the
workplace, and diversity, equity, and inclusion

Charuvi Saxena is from Delhi, India. She earned her post graduate diploma in management from New Delhi Institute of Management. Charuvi is interested in work on diversity and inclusion.
Collin Drown
Hannah Simone Hutchins Lewer earned their bachelor’s degree in psychology from Texas A&M University. Hannah is especially interested in how workplace incivility, including experienced or witnessed discrimination, influences employee
satisfaction.

Hayden Hast is from San Antonio, Texas. She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Texas A&M University. Hayden is interested in
diversity and inclusion, motivation, and
management more generally.
Hima Ongole is from India. She earned her
master’s degree in clinical psychology from Tata
Institute of Social Sciences in Mumbai, India. Hima
is interested in job stress and workplace safety.
Jaeyoung Kim
Jana Bittar

Jeremy Sapia is from Prairieville, Louisiana. He earned his bachelor’s degree in psychology from Spring Hill College. Jeremy’s interests revolve around people analytics, training and development, and performance management.

Jonathan Sibert

Laura Maia Silveira is from Ponta Grossa, Brazil.
She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology with a minor in business administration from Bowling Green State University. Laura’s interests are leadership, teamwork, and motivation.

Logan Ray is from Phoenix, Arizona. He earned his bachelor’s degree in psychology from California State University at Fullerton. Logan is interested in diversity, equity, and inclusion, especially regarding those in neurodivergent communities.
Continued on pg. (3)…

Welcome to Our New Students!
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 3 of 10
Samantha Schultz is from Overland Park, Kansas. She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology and minor in business administration from Kansas State University. Samantha is interested in motivation and employee wellbeing.

Sonali Pahuja is from Delhi, India. She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Ashoka University. Sonali is interested in diversity and inclusion, intergroup relations, and culture and engagement.

Taylor Cook earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Stephen F. Austin State University. 

Taylor Johnson is from Bryan, Texas. She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Southern Methodist University. Taylor is interested in personality, memory and cognition, cross cultural studies, diversity, equity, and inclusion, and workplace attitudes.

Vraj Patel

The fifth cohort of TAMU MSIOP students standing in front of the Psychology Building.

Louise Ortego is from Orange County, California. She earned her bachelor’s degree in human development and psychology from Cornell University. Louise’s interests are selection and diversity and inclusion.
Marco Flores is from McAllen, Texas. He earned his bachelor’s degree in psychology from University of Texas at
Rio Grande Valley. Marco’s interests include health barriers faced by minorities.
Mercedes Jorge is from Deerfield Beach, Florida. She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Florida State
University. Mercedes is interested in diversity and inclusion, organizational justice, organizational culture/climate,
and occupational health and safety.
Michelle Fitzgerald is from Peoria, Illinois. She earned her master’s degree in speech-language pathology from
University of Iowa. Michelle is mainly interested in leadership development.
Omobolanle Akinwa is from Idanre, Nigeria. She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Obafemi
Awolowo University. Omobolanle is mainly interested in talent management.
Paola Flotte is from Presidio, Texas. She earned her bachelor’s degree in psychology from Texas A&M University.
Paola’s interests include diversity and inclusion and motherhood in the workplace.
Welcome to Our New Students (continued)
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 4 of 10
Yanai Otero La Porte presenting her poster at the Texas A&M University
2022 Student Research Week.
Yanai Otero La Porte is a second-year I-O
psychology PhD student who has recently received
two awards. Yanai was awarded funding support
from the Southern Regional Education Board
(SREB) Doctoral Scholar’s Program. Yanai was
also awarded 3rd place in best psychology poster
presentation at the Texas A&M University 2022
Student Research Week. Given her achievements,
the I-O Aggie editors chose Yanai as the focus of
this year’s Aggie Award Spotlight. Yanai was kind
enough to chat with us regarding her research, her
awards, and advice for other students.
Yanai was an Avilés-Johsnon Fellowship recipient
and thus eligible for the SREB Doctoral Scholar’s
Program award. The program funds second-year
PhD students who plan to pursue a career in
academia. Yanai said that her passion for teaching
led her to apply for the funding. Yanai was
awarded the funds based on her discussion of her
academic aspirations and how she wished to serve
as a developmental resource for her future students.
Aggie Award Spotlight
Taking the Shot Pays Off
Yanai also won the Texas A&M University 2022 Student Research Week 3rd place poster award in her subject area.
Yanai’s poster was titled “Reducing Distracted Driving by Promoting Safe Strategies in a Driving Simulator.” Yanai’s
research centers around reducing distracted driving behaviors for occupational drivers. She found that participants who
practiced more safe driving strategies (e.g., turning off their phone, preparing music before driving) in a driving
simulator reported greater use of the strategies afterward. Yanai hopes to continue her research to enhance the safety of
individuals who must drive to perform work.
Yanai said she was very honored to receive the 3rd place award as it was her first time presenting a research poster.
Likewise, Yanai did not necessarily expect to be awarded funding from the SREB Doctoral Scholar’s Program.
Nevertheless, Yanai was deemed worthy of these reputable awards. Yanai’s advice to other students is to never doubt
yourself. If she had not applied for the funding or presented her research, Yanai never would have known what could
have been. So, complete that application, submit that paper, and apply for that award—take that shot—even if you think
it may not turn out in your favor. As Yanai says, “You are more capable than you think.”
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
The current colloquium coordinator Nidhal Mazza is looking for one PhD student to shadow him in
planning and managing colloquium for the Spring 2023 semester and eventually take over as colloquium
coordinator for the Fall 2023-Spring 2024 academic year. If you are interested in shadowing and eventually
serving as a colloquium coordinator, please contact Nidhal (mazzanidhal@tamu.edu).
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 5 of 10
The program is also proud of the accomplishments of our most recent alums as 92% of them accepted job offers prior
to or within 4 months of graduating and one of them, Hyewon Ji, is the first MSIOP student to receive acceptance into
multiple (4) PhD programs.
The program kickstarted the 22-23 academic year with a number of events and activities, namely the new student
orientation, informational session, comps exam administration, students’ internship report-out, and mentoring program
matches. The MSIOP program also hosted personnel from the United States Air Force (USAF) who indicated an
interest in recruiting students to advance the goals of the USAF Occupational Analysis Program. During the event,
students interacted with the Occupational Analysis Program Director, Dan Watola, and two Research Psychologists,
Ariana Cunningham and Trey Gonzalez, an MSIOP alum.
Dr. Bisi Atoba, MSIOP Program Director
The I-O PhD
program
faculty and
students. Not
pictured:
Isaac Sabat,
Jonathan
Bailey,
Samantha
January, Ellen
Hagen, Zach
Traylor,
Jessica
Walker, and
Linden
Wooderson.
Despite being down one faculty member (we were
very sad for Bo Zhang to return to his grad school
stomping ground at the University of Illinois
Urbana Champaign), the I-O Psychology doctoral
program is alive and well with 4 faculty and 20
students. We are engaged in discussions to recoup
Bo’s position as soon as possible. Meanwhile, we
ranked 7th in the 2022 US News and World Report
rankings of I-O psychology doctoral programs.
We have had a number of recent graduations. Our
new PhDs are:
Continued on pg. (6)…
The MSIOP program continues to thrive as it welcomed its returning students and
fifth cohort of new students in August. We are so proud of our 21 second-year
students who returned from summer internships at ByteDance, Collins Aerospace,
Farmers Insurance, Infineon, Tesla, and Thermo Fisher to name a few. They
graduate in December and seek full time employment; go grads! Our 24 new
students also seek summer 2023 internships to acquire more I-O knowledge and
skills; they welcome the opportunity to work with their fellow Aggies.
The MSIOP program will be admitting its sixth cohort of students to start in Fall 2023. Applications are due on
February 15, 2023. More information about admissions can be found on the MSIOP website. To alumni, we would
like to continue to engage you in the MSIOP program. You can be involved in the program by serving as a guest
speaker, mentor, forwarding job and internship announcements, and/or serving on the MSIOP advisory board. If you
are interested in learning more about any of these, contact Bisi Atoba (bisi.atoba@tamu.edu).
State of the MSIOP Program
From the Program Director: Dr. Bisi Atoba
State of the PhD Program
From the Area Head: Dr. Stephanie Payne
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 6 of 10
Dr. Stephanie Payne, I-O Area Head
As usual, we were very busy finalizing submissions to the SIOP conference in early October and look forward to
traveling to Boston in April. Per our long-standing tradition, we celebrated the passing of the October 12th deadline with
happy hour at the Dixie Chicken in Northgate.
December 2021 and May 2022
Graduates
Felix George, Jr., Ph.D.
Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Dissertation: Identifying Profiles of Moral Personality
That Are Maximally Associated With Pro-Organizational
Unethical Behavior, Counterproductive Work Behavior,
and Organizational Citizenship Behavior
Stephanie Brown, Ph.D.
Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Dissertation: Beyond “Hey Hun!” and #BossBabe:
Motivations for Military Spouse Involvement in MultiLevel Marketing
Ashleigh Williams, M.S.
Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Thesis: Cognitive Mean Score Differences on
Unproctored Internet-Based Tests: Self-Selection or
Device-Type Effects?
State of the PhD Program
(continued)
Jennifer McDonald, Sr. Consultant with People & Talent Insights at Oracle,
Stephanie Brown, Human Capital Consultant at ICF,
Kelly Dray, Senior Associate in People Analytics & Insights at PwC, and
Felix George, Jr., Senior Workforce Consultant with Employee Experience Analytics.
We have experienced a number of changes in the past six months. First, our new
university President Kathy Banks proposed that the College of Liberal Arts, College of
Science, and the College of Geosciences should merge into one mammoth College of
Arts & Sciences, so the university spent the summer preparing for this big transition
under the leadership of Dr. José Bermudez. Second, our own Mindy Bergman stepped
into the role of Interim Department Head in April and, like a savvy I-O psychologist,
has quickly inundated the department with lots of spreadsheets to get us more
organized and do a better job of tracking information over time. Third, after a 2-year
break from face-to-face social gatherings, we welcomed new cohorts of PhD and
MSIOP students to TAMU at my house with the traditional back-to-school barbecue.
The incoming PhD cohort consists of 4 students, Toby Driggs, Garam Kim, Evan
Nault, and Beomgyu Park. Fourth, Isaac Sabat was promoted to Associate Professor
and awarded tenure which was officially effective September 1st. Whoop!
December 2021 and May 2022
Graduates
Ellen Hagen, M.S.
Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Thesis: Observer Emotions, Attitudes, and Behaviors in
Response to Witnessed Incivility
Stefan Dumlao, M.S.
Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Thesis: Investigating Employee and Applicant Reactions to
Electronic Performance Monitoring
theresa hernandez, M.S.
Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Thesis: An Examination of Nonbinary and Cisgender
Gender Expression at Work in a Mostly Representative U.S.
Sample
Robert Martin, M.S.
Industrial and Organizational Psychology
Thesis: Weathering the Storm: Moderators of Psychological
Distress and Academic Success After Hurricane Harvey
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 7 of 10
Kristen presented her poster titled “Intersectional
Experiences of Transgender and Gender Expansive
Employees of Color.” Kristen explored how
organizations may signal or inhibit identity safety to
transgender and nonbinary employees, or the extent
to which one perceives their identities to be
welcomed and appreciated. Kristen aimed to fill
critical gaps in the extant literature—which has
focused primarily on White participants—by
interviewing nonbinary employees with a
marginalized racial identity. Employees’
intersectional experiences led Kristen to identify
voluntary pronoun usage, representation, and
supervisor support as salient organizational
characteristics that signal identity safety.
Kristen Jaramillo presenting her poster at the 2nd Year Poster Session.
Nidhal Mazza presenting his poster at the 2nd Year Poster Session.
Yanai Otero La Porte presenting her poster at the 2nd Year Poster Session.
Nidhal presented his poster titled “Missingness in
Self-Reports of Academic Performance: SAT/ACT
Scores as Exemplars.” Nidhal examined the
prevalence and potential explanations of nonresponses to standardized test score inquiries (i.e.,
missingness). Overall, missingness in test scores is
not highly prevalent, but noteworthy as it covaries
with sample characteristics like race. Predictors of
missingness included missing high school GPA
and age, suggesting that individuals tend to forget
their scores as they move temporally away from
their high school grades. Missingness, however,
was also negatively related to archival GPA and
the difference between GPA and SAT/ACT scores,
suggesting that individuals fail to report their
scores to manage impressions.
Yanai’s poster was titled “Reducing Distracted
Driving by Promoting Safe Strategies in a Driving
Simulator.” Yanai presented an updated version of
her Student Research Week poster in which she
investigated how safe driving strategies in a driving
simulator and the installation of a car vent frame
containing a picture of a loved one influence driving
behaviors. She found that practicing safe driving
behaviors in the simulator led to greater intentions to
demonstrate those behaviors in the real-world.
Moreover, those who installed the car vent frame
reported a greater increase in safety strategy use
over time compared to those who did not install one.
Yanai suggested that organizations use similar lowfidelity simulators and safe driving strategies to
reduce distracted driving behaviors.
2
nd Year Poster Presentations (continued)
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 8 of 10
Aggie Achievements!
(Selected internships, placements, publications, and awards from 2022)
Internships and Placements:
Ashleigh Williams completed the American Evaluation Association Graduate Education Diversity Internship.
Cindy Liu is currently the Global Manager of DEI and Leadership Development at Spellman High Voltage
Electronics Corporation.
Stefan Dumlao is currently the Professional Development/D&I Intern at Spellman High Voltage Electronics
Corporation.
Publications (current students and faculty are bolded; alumni are underlined):
Cho, I., Berry, C. M., Payne, S. C., & Lee, P. (in press in 2022). Too good to be true? Are supervisor-perspective
ratings a valid substitute for actual supervisor ratings? Journal of Applied Psychology. Advance online publication.
https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0001018
Dray, K. K., & Sabat, I. E. (2022). Confronting sexism: Identifying dimensions and exploring impact. Journal of
Applied Social Psychology, 52(5), 316-340. https://doi.org/10.1111/jasp.12861
He, Y., Payne, S. C., Beus, J. M., Muñoz, G. J., Battista, V., & Yao, X. (in press). Organizational climate profiles:
Identifying meaningful combinations of climate level and strength. Journal of Applied Psychology. Advance online
publication. https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0001036
Hendricks, J. W., Peres, S. C., Dumlao, S. V., Armstrong, C. A., & Neville, T. J. (2021). The impact of hazard
statement design elements in procedures: Counterintuitive findings and implications for standards. Human Factors.
Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1177/00187208211050137
Keiser, N. L., & Arthur, W., Jr. (2022). A meta-analysis of task and training characteristics that contribute to or
attenuate the effectiveness of the after-action review (or debrief). Journal of Business and Psychology, 37, 953-976.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10869-021-09784-x
Muñoz, G. J., Cortéz, D. A., Álvarez, C. B., Raggio, J. A., Concha, A., Rojas, F. I., Arthur, W. Jr., Fischer, B. M., &
Rodriguez, S. (2020). After-action reviews and long-term performance: An experimental examination in the context of
an emergency simulation. Human Factors, 64(4), 760-778. https://doi.org/10.1177/0018720820958848
Nirjhar, E. H., Sakib, M. N., Hagen, E., Rani, H., Chu, S. L., Arthur, W., Jr., Behzadan, A. H., & Chaspari, T.
(2022). Investigating the interplay between self-reported and bio-behavioral measures of stress: A pilot study of
civilian job interviews with military veterans. Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Affective
Computing and Intelligent Interactions (ACII), Nara, Japan.
Presentations:
Bowman-Callaway, C. E., & Payne, S. C. (2022). Feedback and simulator fail to reduce overconfidence in
multitasking ability: Implications for distracted driving [Poster]. Association for Psychological Science Annual
Convention, Chicago, IL, United States.
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 9 of 10
Dumlao, S. V. (Chair), Payne, S. C., Spitzmueller, C., & Tannenbaum, S. I. (2022). I-O psychology in the Gulf:
Safety culture of offshore workers [Panel]. Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology Annual Conference,
Seattle, WA, United States.
Edoga, E. I. & Bergman, M. E. (2022). The impact of racialized stereotypes on employee voice. In Jenkins, E. D.,
Edoga, E. I., & Bergman, M. E. (Co-chairs), Superwoman and the office b*tch: An examination of Black women's
stereotypes at work [Symposium]. Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology Annual Conference, Seattle,
WA, United States.
Hagen, E., Sakib M. N., Rani, N., Nirjhar, E. H., Nenkova, A. N., Chaspari, T., Chu, S. L., Behzadan, A. H., &
Arthur, W., Jr. (2022). Interviewer perceptions of veterans in civilian employment interviews and suggested
interventions [Paper]. International Military Testing Association (IMTA) Conference, Raleigh, NC, United States.
Jaramillo, K. N., & Sabat, I. E. (2022). An intersectional qualitative analysis of transgender and gender expansive
employees [Oral presentation]. Texas A&M University Student Research Week, College Station, TX, United States.
Jenkins, E. D., Edoga, E. I., Land, M. & Bergman, M. E. (2022). Endorsement of the strong Black woman
stereotype and occupational outcomes. In Jenkins, E. D., Edoga, E. I., & Bergman, M. E. (Co-chairs), Superwoman
and the office b*tch: An examination of Black women's stereotypes at work [Symposium]. Society for Industrial and
Organizational Psychology Annual Conference, Seattle, WA, United States.
Otero La Porte, Y. & Payne, S. C. (2022). Reducing distracted driving by promoting safe strategies in a driving
simulator [Poster]. Texas A&M University Student Research Week, College Station, TX, United States.
Schulte, B. D., Arthur, W., Jr., Traylor, Z., George, F., Jr. Keiser, N. L., & Bennett, W., Jr. (2022). Effects of team
member substitution and the after-action review on team performance [Poster]. Society for Industrial and
Organizational Psychology Annual Conference, Seattle, WA, United States.
Schulte, B. D., Bowman-Callaway, C. E., & Payne, S. C. (2022). Combating overconfidence to discourage
distracted driving [Poster]. Association for Psychological Science Annual Convention, Chicago, IL, United States.
Grants:
Naber, A., & Arthur, W. Jr. (2022). Objective AAR guidebook: Improving unit performance and cohesion in complex
environments. Army Research Institute (ARI), US Army. 2022/2024. [$500,000]
Awards:
Kristen Jaramillo: 2022 Texas A&M University Graduate Student Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Award
Kristen Jaramillo: 2022 Texas A&M University Student Research Week 2nd Place Oral Presentation
Rose Siuta: 2022 Texas A&M University Distinguished Graduate Student Award
Yanai Otero La Porte: 2022 Texas A&M University Student Research Week 3rd Place Poster Presentation
Yanai Otero La Porte: Southern Regional Education Board Doctoral Scholars Program
The I-O Aggie 4.2, November 2022

Page 10 of 10
Do you have something that you would like to share in our next edition? New job? Promotion? Life updates? Publications? Awards?
Contact The I-O Aggie Editors: 
Primary Editor: Benjamin D. Schulte bschu5@tamu.edu
Co-Editor: Kristen Jaramillo kr1stenjaramillo@tamu.edu